Notes.md, before:

# Notes

- Functions in Haskell only take one parameter
- The space is the function application.
  - E.g. defining `max :: Ord a => a -> a -> a` is equivalent to defining it is `max :: Ord a => a -> (a -> a)`
  - Curried functions
- Running `divTen = (/10)` in GCHI throws an error as it returns a function of type `Factional a => a -> a` and functions aren't part of the `Show` typeclass, so haskell doesn't know how to print it.
- Due to Haskell's lazy evaluation, when mapping and filtering over a list several times, it will only ever be enumerated once
- Function application with a space is left-associative (`f a b c` = `(((f a) b) c)`) whereas with $ its right-associative (`f $ a $ b $ c` = `(f $ (a $ (b $ c)))`)
- Function application operator allows us to treat function application like any other function, e.g. mapping application over a list of functions: `map ($ 3) [(4+), (5*), (/6), (^3)]`
- Because function composition is right-associative, you can chain functions that you want to compose! E.g.
  - `map (\xs -> negate (sum (tail xs))) [[1..5], [3..6], [1..7]]`
  - Vs. `map (negate . sum . tail) [[1..5], [3..6], [1..7]]` etc
- Can use compose functions which take several parameters by evaluating them with parameters in the correct order. E.g.
  - `sum (replicate 5 (max 6.7. 8.9))` vs `sum . replicate 5 . max 6.7 $ 8.9`
  - `replicate 100 (product (map (*3) (zipWith max [1,2,3,4,5] [4,5,1,7,8])))` vs `replicate 100 . product . map (*3) . zipWith max [1,2,3,4,5] $ [4,5,1,7,8]` 
- Omitting a parameter because of currying in a function definition is called 'point free style'. E.g `sum xs = foldl (+) 0 xs` vs `sum = foldl (+) 0`
- Searching for functions, etc:
  - [Hoogle](https://www.haskell.org/hoogle/)
  - [HHL](https://downloads.haskell.org/~ghc/latest/docs/html/libraries/)
- `Maybe a` can either be `Nothing` or `Just a`. Its like a special kind of list that can only hold either 1 value or nothing; `elemIndex` returns a `Maybe Int` because the element you pass it may or may not exist in the list in question, whereas `elemIndices` returns a `[Int]`, which will be empty if the element is never found.
- `[1..10] \\ [1,3,5]` is equivalent to `delete 1 . delete 3 . delete 5 $ [1..10]`
- For list functions that take `Int` and return `Int` where it would have been more convenient to deal in `Num`, you can use their `generic*` counterparts. 
- There are also functions like `nubBy, deleteBy, unionBy`, etc which take an equality function rather than expect lists of elements that conform to `Eq`.
- `Data.Char` exports a datatype like `Ordering` but that defines categories that chars fall into: `GeneralCategory`. Use `generalCategory` to determine the category of a char.. e.g `map generalCategory "something"`
- `Data.Map`'s `fromList` creates a map from an association list. It discards duplicate keys.
- `Data.Map`'s `Map` type wants its keys to conform to `Ord` so that it can arrange them as a tree.

Commit message:

Started 'Making Our Own Types and Typeclasses chapter.

Notes.md, after:

# Notes

- Functions in Haskell only take one parameter
- The space is the function application.
  - E.g. defining `max :: Ord a => a -> a -> a` is equivalent to defining it is `max :: Ord a => a -> (a -> a)`
  - Curried functions
- Running `divTen = (/10)` in GCHI throws an error as it returns a function of type `Factional a => a -> a` and functions aren't part of the `Show` typeclass, so haskell doesn't know how to print it.
- Due to Haskell's lazy evaluation, when mapping and filtering over a list several times, it will only ever be enumerated once
- Function application with a space is left-associative (`f a b c` = `(((f a) b) c)`) whereas with $ its right-associative (`f $ a $ b $ c` = `(f $ (a $ (b $ c)))`)
- Function application operator allows us to treat function application like any other function, e.g. mapping application over a list of functions: `map ($ 3) [(4+), (5*), (/6), (^3)]`
- Because function composition is right-associative, you can chain functions that you want to compose! E.g.
  - `map (\xs -> negate (sum (tail xs))) [[1..5], [3..6], [1..7]]`
  - Vs. `map (negate . sum . tail) [[1..5], [3..6], [1..7]]` etc
- Can use compose functions which take several parameters by evaluating them with parameters in the correct order. E.g.
  - `sum (replicate 5 (max 6.7. 8.9))` vs `sum . replicate 5 . max 6.7 $ 8.9`
  - `replicate 100 (product (map (*3) (zipWith max [1,2,3,4,5] [4,5,1,7,8])))` vs `replicate 100 . product . map (*3) . zipWith max [1,2,3,4,5] $ [4,5,1,7,8]` 
- Omitting a parameter because of currying in a function definition is called 'point free style'. E.g `sum xs = foldl (+) 0 xs` vs `sum = foldl (+) 0`
- Searching for functions, etc:
  - [Hoogle](https://www.haskell.org/hoogle/)
  - [HHL](https://downloads.haskell.org/~ghc/latest/docs/html/libraries/)
- `Maybe a` can either be `Nothing` or `Just a`. Its like a special kind of list that can only hold either 1 value or nothing; `elemIndex` returns a `Maybe Int` because the element you pass it may or may not exist in the list in question, whereas `elemIndices` returns a `[Int]`, which will be empty if the element is never found.
- `[1..10] \\ [1,3,5]` is equivalent to `delete 1 . delete 3 . delete 5 $ [1..10]`
- For list functions that take `Int` and return `Int` where it would have been more convenient to deal in `Num`, you can use their `generic*` counterparts. 
- There are also functions like `nubBy, deleteBy, unionBy`, etc which take an equality function rather than expect lists of elements that conform to `Eq`.
- `Data.Char` exports a datatype like `Ordering` but that defines categories that chars fall into: `GeneralCategory`. Use `generalCategory` to determine the category of a char.. e.g `map generalCategory "something"`
- `Data.Map`'s `fromList` creates a map from an association list. It discards duplicate keys.
- `Data.Map`'s `Map` type wants its keys to conform to `Ord` so that it can arrange them as a tree.
- Value constructors are functions, so you can map them, partially apply them, etc.
- The type ctor is before the `=` and value ctors are after `=`, possibly separated by `|`s - they are distinct.
- We can `read` parameterized types provided that the type is specified, e.g. `read "Just 'a'" :: Maybe Char`.. would not work with `.. :: Maybe a`
- `Nothing` < `Just a`, when comparing 2 `Just a`s, because `Maybe` derives from `Ord`, Haskell goes to comparing the actual `a` values.
